# Firewall  

A firewall is a system that provides network security by enforcing access control policy between private LAN and public internet.
A Firewall provides a layer of security preventing any hacker from accessing important data. A firewall can be software, hardware or both.  

Purpose of Firewall: 

1. It blocks incoming data that might contain malicious malware containing a hacker attack. 

2. It hides the information of the network by imposing itself that all the outgoing traffic generated by the firewall rather than the network - This is called network address translation.  

The firewall first determines whether the incoming transmission is being requested by a user on the network,  firewall checks the sender's computer address to ensure that it is a trusted site and also checks the content of the transmission.  

Firewalls are categorized into three types:  

1. Packet filter firewalls
2. Application proxy servers
3. Stateful packet inspection firewalls  


Packet filter firewalls:  
    Every computer on a network has an address commonly referred to as an IP address. A packet filter firewall checks the address of incoming traffic and turns away anything that doesn’t match the list of trusted addresses.  

Application-Level Proxy Server:  
An application-level proxy server examines the application used for each individual IP packet to verify its authenticity. 

Stateful Packet Inspection Firewall:   
It examines all parts of the IP packet to determine whether to accept or reject the requested communication.  

Software based Firewalls:
A software firewall is a software based solution installed on individual computers on one's network to safegaurd against any vulnerabilities. This firewall acts as second line of defence from online attacks any malcious programm try to access one's network. Use of anti-virus a
It's easier to install software as compared to hardware firewalls, due to ease of customization, users can have better control over it's functionalities. 
Software firewalls needs regular administration and regular updating patches.  

Hardware based Firewalls:  
It's a physical device (router) installed between local computer network and the public internet.  
A single firewall can protect whole computer network zone, Less vulnerable to attacks.  
Hardware firewall is difficult to install and takes up physical space which involves wiring.  

Conclusion:  
Software based firewall are best suited for small organization. low risk environment like florist shop using packet filetring.
Hardware based firewall are best suited for large organization.
High risk environment like hospital where data needs to be protected should install Hybrid gateway- combination of both packet filetring and application gateways.  

Refrence:  
1. https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/what-is-a-firewall-and-how-does-it-work
2. https://www.cisco.com/c/en_in/products/security/firewalls/what-is-a-firewall.html
3. https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLBbU9-SUUCwV7Dpk7GI8QDLu3w54TNAA6